Looking into the inside, she saw several coats hanging up - mostly long fur coats. There
was nothing Lucy liked so much as the smell and feel of fur. She immediately stepped
into the wardrobe and got in among the coats and rubbed her face against them, leaving
the door open, of course, because she knew that it is very foolish to shut oneself into any
wardrobe. Soon she went further in and found that there was a second row of coats
hanging up behind the first one. It was almost quite dark in there and she kept her arms
stretched out in front of her so as not to bump her face into the back of the wardrobe. She
took a step further in - then two or three steps always expecting to feel woodwork against
the tips of her fingers. But she could not feel it.
"This must be a simply enormous wardrobe!" thought Lucy, going still further in and
pushing the soft folds of the coats aside to make room for her. Then she noticed that there
was something crunching under her feet. "I wonder is that more mothballs?" she thought,
stooping down to feel it with her hand. But instead of feeling the hard, smooth wood of
the floor of the wardrobe, she felt something soft and powdery and extremely cold. "This
is very queer," she said, and went on a step or two further.
Next moment she found that what was rubbing against her face and hands was no longer
soft fur but something hard and rough and even prickly. "Why, it is just like branches of
trees!" exclaimed Lucy. And then she saw that there was a light ahead of her; not a few
inches away where the back of the wardrobe ought to have been, but a long way off.
Something cold and soft was falling on her. A moment later she found that she was
standing in the middle of a wood at night-time with snow under her feet and snowflakes
falling through the air.
Lucy felt a little frightened, but she felt very inquisitive and excited as well. She looked
back over her shoulder and there, between the dark tree trunks; she could still see the
open doorway of the wardrobe and even catch a glimpse of the empty room from which
she had set out. (She had, of course, left the door open, for she knew that it is a very silly
thing to shut oneself into a wardrobe.) It seemed to be still daylight there. "I can always
get back if anything goes wrong," thought Lucy. She began to walk forward, crunchcrunch over the snow and through the wood towards the other light. In about ten minutes
she reached it and found it was a lamp-post. As she stood looking at it, wondering why
there was a lamp-post in the middle of a wood and wondering what to do next, she heard
a pitter patter of feet coming towards her. And soon after that a very strange person
stepped out from among the trees into the light of the lamp-post.
He was only a little taller than Lucy herself and he carried over his head an umbrella,
white with snow. From the waist upwards he was like a man, but his legs were shaped
like a goat's (the hair on them was glossy black) and instead of feet he had goat's hoofs.
He also had a tail, but Lucy did not notice this at first because it was neatly caught up
over the arm that held the umbrella so as to keep it from trailing in the snow. He had a
red woollen muffler round his neck and his skin was rather reddish too. He had a strange,
but pleasant little face, with a short pointed beard and curly hair, and out of the hair there
stuck two horns, one on each side of his forehead. One of his hands, as I have said, held 